Team retention.
As you might have surmised,
retaining people is always a positive management practice,
but if you can't, you'll have to acquire new talent.
Whoops, there they go.
So let's explore the topic of employee retention and why it's so important.
First before we jump into acquiring new talent,
let's look for a moment at employee retention,
so just what is it?
Employee retention refers to the ability of an
organization to retain its employees.
This is good, of course.
You want to keep them, they are knowledgeable about the business,
they are technically trained, and they get the work done.
The retention rate refers to a simple statistic,
for example,
a retention rate of 90% usually indicates that an organization
kept 90% of its employees in a given period,
usually that period is 12 months, and the higher the retention rate,
the better.
So the closest you are to 100%, the better.
Employee turnover is just the opposite.
Employee turnover refers to the number or percentage of
workers who leave an organization.
The turnover rate is the ration of the total number of
employees who leave divided by the total number of
employees over the same period of time, and again,
usually that period is 12 months.
And the lower the turnover rate, the better.
For example,
if your organization has 800 employees and 60 leave over a 12 month period,
then your turnover rate is about 7.
5%, 60 divided by 800.
And you want a low turnover rate.
If you can have 0, all the better.
Turnover versus retention.
As turnover goes down, retention goes up.
They're just mirror images of each other.
Low turnover means a higher retention rate.
There are costs to hiring new people and that is why retention is
an important factor you need to keep in mind.
There are costs for onboarding the new person,
including the advertising, interviewing,
screening, and hiring.
There's lost productivity,
it may take a new employee 1 to 2 years of training to reach
productivity of an existing person that may have just left,
and in the meantime you have lost productivity of not
doing what the person who left was doing.
Lost engagement,
other employees who see high turnover may tend to
disengage and lose productivity themselves.
Customer service may service.
For example,
new employees take longer and are often less adept at solving problems.
Training costs,
for example over 2 to 3 years a business is likely to
invest 10-20% of an employee's salary, or more,
in training, and I just don't mean classroom or internet training,
I mean on the job training.
And there's a cultural impact as well.
Whenever someone leaves,
others take time to ask why and may feel new doubts about the department.
Okay, now that I've made you aware of the costs of turnover and the side effects, let's discuss some ideas on how to retain people.